To encourage us to promptly follow up on interest that we find in the Phil ministry, Paul likens our work to a plant that grows from a little seed.
Now, what vital for a planted seed to grow?
One authority says,
Of all the factors that determine seed germination, water is the first and most important.
And another reference says,
Until seeds have sprouted, keep the seed bed moist, never allowing it to dry out.
So, what will happen to a seed that is not watered?
Nothing, it will lay dormant.
The regular watering is vital for a seed to sprout, to take root, and in fact continue to grow.
Now, with these facts in mind, Paul's words at 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 6,
shows that more is required than simply planting a seed of truth.
Let's note his words. It's in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 6.
It says, I planted Apollo's watered, but God kept making it grow.
Though all credit goes to Jehovah God for making the spiritual seed grow, but he allows us to have a role in the process.
Did you notice the important role Apollo's played? He did the watering.
In a regular way, he helped keep the spiritual soil of the individual moist, never allowing it to dry out.
Many people who show interest in the Kingdom message today are searching for the truth about God.
In order to teach them progressively, we must return again and again.
This requires good preparation and organization on our part.
By promptly making return visits, we demonstrate a sincere concern for the individual,
wanting to help them grow spiritually and develop a relationship with Jehovah.
In the following video, notice how a sister follows up on interest shown.
Ami left a great question for her next visit.
Return visit, Mrs. Iwata.
I told her I'd visit this morning. I just didn't schedule the time.
I could at least stop by on the way back.
Mr. again, if I didn't try something different, I was just going to keep missing her.
First, I wanted her to know I hadn't forgotten her. Dear Mrs. Iwata, I hope you're doing well.
I promised to come by early next week. By the way, your flowers are so beautiful.
Then I made a plan for my service day, pulling through, is just too important to leave to chance.
As you plan your share in the ministry, follow the good example of the sister in the video
and schedule time to make regular return visits.
Doing so is just as important as other aspects of our ministry.
These regular visits with interested people are vital links in the chain leading to a Bible study.
In our ministry, we often compliment the householder for the beautiful flowers or plants in their yard,
just like the sister did in the video.
But how do they get that way?
Well, the householder probably watered them on set days or even used an automatic sprinkler timer to schedule regular watering cycles.
To have healthy and vibrant plants, watering cannot be left to chance.
Well, how can we apply that to our ministry?
Before leaving a person that has shown interest, endeavor to set the proper time to water.
The water of truth will come on.
Perhaps a what day or hour would you like for me to return to continue our discussion or to answer the question?
Do this consideration really dignify as the person, allowing them to share in setting the appointment?
It's important that we be willing to water an interested person at the most convenient time for them.
Then, just like setting a timer, put that appointment where you'll remember it.
The sister in the video put it in her electronic calendar so she could be reminded later.
If you promise someone that you'll return, then keep your promise.
Remember Jesus' simple statement recorded in Matthew 537, just like your word, yes, mean, yes.
If they're truly interested, they may go to great efforts to keep the appointment.
How disappointed there would be if we didn't show up.
Following through is just too important to leave to chance.
Because of the busy lives that people have today, it may be hard to find the person at home again, even if you set an appointment.
So, it's a good idea to try and obtain his contact information, maybe his phone number.
Some publishers anticipate this challenge and simply ask, do you text?
By simply texting, you may be able to keep in touch and cultivate the interest further.
And if you can't get his contact information and the person isn't home at the agreed upon time,
you might leave a brief note just as the sister did in the video.
And this will assure the householder that you haven't forgotten them.
The disciple making work requires patience and persistence.
In this regard, note what Ecclesiastes 116 says.
Ecclesiastes 116, it says, so your seed in the morning and do not let your hand rest until the evening.
Do not know which will have success whether this one or that one or whether they will both do well.
When it comes to planting literal seed, we don't know when and where it will sprout.
Many factors are beyond our control.
Something similar can be said of the disciple making work.
We need to be patient and positive because we don't know who will respond.
Lastly, and of utmost importance, even if they return visit his brief, share a scriptural thought.
The spiritual content of our conversation is what makes our visit different from many others that they may have.
Do they have neighbors, friends, workmates or relatives that check in on them?
But for them to grow spiritually, the water of truth from God's Word must be dispensed.
To convey just a brief scriptural thought may provide just enough to keep their spiritual soil moist.
The work involved in following up interest is a very important assignment that Jehovah has given to each of us.
With this in mind, let's return to Paul's illustration and see how Jehovah views us.
It's back at 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 9.
It says, for we are God's fellow workers, you are God's field under cultivation, God's building.
It's an honor to be one of God's fellow workers, enabling us to show our love for Him and for our neighbors.
It brings us great joy to share the good news of peace by following up on interest shown.
And we can be assured.
Those who respond favorably will forever appreciate our diligent efforts when they recall how we promptly followed up when they showed interest.
Brother William Malenfant, a helper to the teaching committee, will now present the final talk of this symposium.
Be ready to share the good news of peace, help students grow to maturity.